---
layout: post
title:  "09: Electronic Output Devices"
permalink: /09/
---

### Interfacing output with the Arduino  

In today's class, we reviewed output devices that can interact with the Arduino, and send some sort of signal. We learnt about motors that can be used to derive locomotion. There is a variety of motors that can be used in devices such as DC motors. DC motors (including brushed and brushless) utilize direct current to generate torque in high speed and efficiency. Stepper motors are another type of motors that handle precise rotations which can be controlled with micro controllers. Stepper motors are used in applications such as 3D printing and robotics to maximize accuracy. Solenoids (which are electromagnets made from a coil of wire) can also be used in applications such as motors. Most of those motors require an external power supply using the MOSFET transistor.

Other forms of output include light (such as LED) and communication such as wifi or radio modules.

We then worked on LED strips and connected them to an Arduino. We first soldered wires to the ground, 5v, and signal and then ran animations with the LED strips from the example programs. Then, we worked on buzzers and played songs such as the Mario theme song and Star Wars theme song.  

### Assignment

 For our assignment, I connected an LED strip to an Arduino, and received values from a phototransistor to create a light indicator, which changes the number of LEDs turned on based on light intensity and brightness. To do so, I connected the 5v pin to the phototransistor and connected the phototransistor to analog input and to the ground (via a resistor). Then, readings were calibrated using the map function and sent to the LED strip.

 <video width="955" height="541" controls>
 	<source src="a.mp4" type="video/mp4">
 </video>

 <video width="955" height="541" controls>
 	<source src="b.mp4" type="video/mp4">
 </video>


 <video width="955" height="541" controls>
	<source src="c.mp4" type="video/mp4">
 </video>  



 Then I used an ESP8266 device to measure the light intensity and send as an output an email to a user. For that, I used an SMTP server to send the email and used similar connections to the previous circuit.
