---
layout: post
title:  "02: Building with an Arduino"
permalink: /02/
---

### Micro-Controllers

In today's class, we learned how to build simple prototypes with an Arduino such as blinking LEDs. I managed to build two prototypes with the Arduino that have different functionalities.

Arduino is an open source micro-controller. Micro-controllers are single-chip computers that carry out a variety of functions. These micro-controllers can be programmed to do certain applications such as doing a voltage reading, blinking LEDs, and running motors.

I first started with a circuit that measures the temperature and outputs the reading to the serial monitor. This was done by connecting the 5v pin and the Ground of the Arduino to the temperature sensor and connect the output voltage to the analog input at the pin A0 and reading the value, then printing it to the serial monitor every 250 milliseconds.

The second circuit
 


```int val = 0;
void setup(){
Serial.begin(9600);
}

void loop(){
	val = analogRead(A0);
	Serial.print(val);
	delay(250);
}
```

The second circuit was a small car made using 4 motors connected to the Arduino. The positive terminal of the motors were connected to the digital pins, which were set to output at high voltage. However, issues were followed as initially the motors were connected to the digital pins 0 and 1 while uploading which caused an error as those pins are used as transmitter/receiver pins. The negative terminals were connected to the analog pins instead of the common ground which gave me control to switch the direction of the current, allowing me to reverse the motors by setting either the digital or analog pins to high or low. However, the voltage and current produced by the GPIO pins (General Purpose Input Output) were both too low to generate enough torque to cause motion.

The following is the code for the second circuit
```int val = 0;
void setup()
{
  Serial.begin(9600);
pinMode(2,OUTPUT);
pinMode(3,OUTPUT);
pinMode(4,OUTPUT);
pinMode(5,OUTPUT);

pinMode(A0,OUTPUT);
pinMode(A1,OUTPUT);
pinMode(A2,OUTPUT);
pinMode(A3,OUTPUT);

}
void loop()
{
  digitalWrite(2,HIGH);
  digitalWrite(3,HIGH);
  digitalWrite(4,HIGH);
  digitalWrite(5,HIGH);

  digitalWrite(A0,LOW);
  digitalWrite(A1,LOW);
  digitalWrite(A2,LOW);
  digitalWrite(A3,LOW);
  delay(2500);
Serial.print(analogRead(A0));
Serial.
    digitalWrite(2,LOW);
  digitalWrite(3,LOW);
  digitalWrite(4,LOW);
  digitalWrite(5,LOW);

  digitalWrite(A0,HIGH);
  digitalWrite(A1,HIGH);
  digitalWrite(A2,HIGH);
  digitalWrite(A3,HIGH);


}  



```
<!-- You can include comments that will not be translated to HTML -->

<!-- You can include links and images in the following format: -->



<!-- Or, you can also directly include HTML, for example to make a split image -->


<!-- You can also use HTML tags to include a video -->
<video width="955" height="541" controls>
	<source src="arduinocar.mp4" type="video/mp4">
</video>
